So if you had an opportunity to try this out now the first thing that we needed to do is add in the
ability to output.
So we saw this before we grabbed that element and now we can output content into here.
So now let's add in that condition.
So we know that we can check the value of C S and see if it's equal to p s so C S is the computer selection
P.S. Is the player selection.
And if they're actually equal then we know that this is a tie.
So I want to have a variable as basically a placeholder.
It's going to start out as blank and this is where we're going to add in
that it's a tie
and we're also going indicate if the if the player is a winner or a loser.
So it's a tie.
So we're going to add into that H to m-L.
So we know that if C-s is not equal to us we've got a lot of conditions to work out.
So let's try that.
And we know that we can add that into that statement.
And then at the end of the day we're going to do output dark inner h t male is equal to.
So it's going to be Player versus computer.
And so there's a lot of styling that you could add into this as well.
So feel free to update this with styling.
I'm just doing some really basic HVM here.
I'm not going to worry too much about the styling for this one.
This is just a simple exercise to demonstrate how we're outputting and doing the rock paper scissors
so do player.
So I just want to be able to output that content so I've got the player's content.
I've got the computer's content so let's output that for display.
I make a line break there and then last but not least let's add in what happened the result.
So basically this result is going to be what happened after we run all of our conditions so we can try
this out and we can refresh it.
So let's let's do rock and hit.
OK.
So rock versus rock.
It's a tie.
So that one actually worked.
And that was a nice Fluke there that both the computer and myself picked the same one.
But this isn't going to be always the case.
So we need to make some conditions.
So let's add these in.
So I have to do is to really think about the logic of this application and we can really do this with
him conditions.
So let's start with the very basics.
We know that the player selection so the player is selected either rock paper scissors.
So it's going to be displayed within us as our P or ass.
And I really hate typing scissors that's why having these first characters is going to be really ideal.
So p s and we're going to check to see if the player has selected a rock.
And if they have then we know that the rock beats the scissors and we know that that's how the player's
going to win.
And if the if the computer hasn't selected scissors let's say they've.
We know that the player hasn't the computer hasn't selected rock either because we've done that condition
over here.
So there's only one other option.
So if it's not scissors then it's paper and if it's paper then the computer wins.
But we've already set this to false.
So we don't have to worry about that one.
So let's do our condition.
We'll check to see if the player's selection is rock.
And we're also going to have a condition here to check to see if the computer selection is equal to
scissors and we know that if this is true then the player wins.
So we just need to set that to true.
We know that if the player selects rock and a computer select scissors then the player wins.
So let's add in some additional conditions here.
So we're going to check next going through some of the other possible options and we're going to see
if the player's selection and the order of views actually doesn't matter.
So player selection is paper.
We could just as easily chose scissors.
So what I want to do now is pause the video and update the rest of these conditions so I know that paper
and if the computer has selected rock that means that we won.
And so we can do the same type of statement there.
And then last but not least we know that there's only one other option and that's the player selected
scissors.
And then we can do those conditions as well.
So take a minute try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out so we know that if the player selects paper and the computer
selects
rawk that means that the player won.
So that's one we can include there.
And one more.
So there's one more possibility and this one is just going to be the last default.
We know that the players selected scissors.
So we don't have to do any other condition there for the player.
And here we just need to check to see what the computer has selected.
So if the player selected scissors and the computer's selected paper and we know that scissors cut paper.
So that turns out to be true as well.
So now we've got all of our conditions.
We know that if the win is true or false.
So we need to do in one last condition check here and that's to see what the value of win is.
And if win is true.
So if any one of these conditions were met it's going to set wind to true and basically meaning that
player wins.
And we also know that if the player didn't win else we know that the HD amount is that the computer
wins.
So if the player doesn't win then and if it's not a tight game then basically that means that the computer
So I think we're ready to try the suit.
So let's refresh make our selections let's do rock.
OK.
So we've got player versus computer rock versus scissor result player wins because we know that the
rock crushes the scissors.
Let's try that one more time.
So let's do a paper and we've got paper versus paper so the result.
It's a tie.
So one last thing that I did want to add in and that means that if for instance we do s we do s versus
rock.
So we know that the computations are still going to work out that this is scissors versus raw and we
know that the computer the rock crushes the scissors but we're not actually putting scissors we're just
outputting ass.
So let's update that within the conditional statements so that we can actually have those full values.
So I need to do now again pause the video and add that part in.
So make sure that even if the user of the player selects only the first character that we're still good
in that we can still write out either a rock paper scissors.
So I did try that out and I showed the solution.
So the solution for that is that we can overwrite the value of player.
So we know that if we've done our condition check here we've checked to see if the player's selection
is rock.
So we know that even if the player had typed in rock or if they typed in are then the player should
always equal rock.
Because that's the actual selection that was made.
Next we can do the same thing for here.
So the player can equal two paper.
And then last but not least the player can equal two scissors.
Just clean that up a little bit there and let's write the scissors and then we should be ready to try
this out.
So now let's refresh instead of scissors and it's going to put s ands
I think I got to save that.
So I think I didn't say that properly.
So let's try that out again.
So now we've got scissors versus paper.
Result player wins.
So now we're all ready to go with just the first character.
So we don't always have to have the user type in the full rock paper scissors.
They can just pick the first character.
So now it's up to you to take the code.
Try it for yourself make some updates to it.
You can make it look a whole lot better by adding in some styling and as well in the upcoming lessons
when we're going to look at functions and we're going to look more at what we can do with the dorm.
That's going to open up the door to a whole lot more possibilities with the source code.
And as within the other exercises as you learn more Javascript You can always come back make some updates
to the code and really customize it and really build it out.
So go ahead and try this out for yourself within your own editor and see if you can make happen with
rock paper scissors the game.